1. The asynchronous nature of Javascript can be a painpoint because it can be harder to debug. Loose typing can be a painpoint because you're responsible for checking that any operations you do between data types acts in the way you want it to, and type errors may not be caught until runtime which can result in unexpected behavior. The web platform can be a pain point because there is such a wide variety of browsers and versions that you have to worry about for compatibility concerns, wheras programmers in languages like C or C++ don't have to worry about this stuff as the compiler handles it. 
2. It is helpful for JS to be loosely typed because it is an interpreted language and we don't want websites to crash at every error. The loose typing allows for on-demand conversions to make operations make sense when they normally wouldn't (like 1 + "hi") and avoid crashes. It is helpful for JS to have asynchronous features because sometimes we want websites to be able to do multiple things at once, so it's nice if we still have a fully responsive website while slower tasks are running.
3. Compiled languages are turned into machine code by a compiler, which performs a lot of checks. We can then run the program and we know it's gauranteed to have no compile time errors. Interpreted languages execute instructinos one after next, which makes them flexible but they can be slow and prone to errors. A benefit of JS being interpreted is that we don't have to go through the extra effort of turning it into machine code, and we dont have to interact with users machines at all. Everything can stay limited to the browser. A drawback is that many errors won't be automaticallly checked and we have to be careful as programmers to check for them ourselves. Another drawback is that this causes JS to be slow.
4. The frameworks all build on top of VanillaJS, so if we don't understand the fundemantal concepts of VanillaJS we will write bad code with the frameworks and not be aware about subtle errors. The entire web runs on Vanilla JS and it will continue to, but frameworks introduce dependencies that have limited lifetime and induce a whole nightmare of subtle problems below the hood. It's beneficial to learn vnailla JS first since it will make us better programmers even for these frameworks. The drawback is we might have to spend a lot more time doing stuff that might be quicker and easier with a framework.
5. The diagramming is directly helpful in the planning stage of our project. We can use it to have a clear, well defined control flow for our app. Debugging is a critical skill to know for programming in general, and backend programmers will probably benefit a lot from it. CI/CD pipelines are used everywhere in industry to ensure code quality and correctness, and it would be helpful to use it in this course as we want to ensure these qualities while developing a project over a large time period. And obviously, we're going to be using JS to implement project details so it's critical to be good at it.